---
category: integration
order: 40
url: guide/dev_vue
menu-title: Vue Integration
meta-title-short: Vue Integration
---
<!--
Copyright (c) 2003-2020, CKSource - Frederico Knabben. All rights reserved.
For licensing, see LICENSE.md.
-->

# CKEditor 4 WYSIWYG Editor Vue Integration

<info-box info="">
	This feature is provided through the <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/ckeditor4-vue"><code>ckeditor4-vue</code> npm package</a>.
</info-box>

CKEditor 4 offers a native Vue integration through the CKEditor 4 Vue component. It provides deep integration of CKEditor 4 and Vue that lets you use the native features of the WYSIWYG editor inside a Vue component. The CKEditor 4 Vue component is compatible with Vue.js 2.x.

## Basic Usage

In order to create an editor instance in Vue, install the `ckeditor4-vue` npm package as a dependency of your project:

```plaintext
npm install ckeditor4-vue
```

Now you need to enable the CKEditor 4 Vue component in your application. There are two ways to do so:

* [via a direct script include](#direct-script-include),
* [by using ES6 module imports](#using-es6-modules).

### Direct script include

This is the quickest way to start using CKEditor in your project. Assuming [Vue is installed](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/installation.html), include the `<script>` tags for the WYSIWYG editor component and the build:

```html
<script src="../node_modules/ckeditor4/ckeditor.js"></script>
<script src="../node_modules/ckeditor4-vue/dist/ckeditor.js"></script>
```

Enable the component in your application by using the [`Vue.use()`](https://vuejs.org/v2/api/#Vue-use) method:

```js
Vue.use( CKEditor );
```

<info-box>
	Instead of calling `Vue.use()`, you can always [use the component locally](#using-the-component-locally).
</info-box>

Use the `<ckeditor>` component in your template:

* The [`v-model`](#v-model) directive enables an out–of–the–box two–way data binding.
* The [`config`](#config) directive helps you pass the editor configuration to the editor instance.

```html
<div id="app">
	<ckeditor v-model="editorData" :config="editorConfig"></ckeditor>
</div>
```

```js
const app = new Vue( {
	el: '#app',
	data: {
		editorData: '<p>Content of the editor.</p>',
		editorConfig: {
			// The configuration of the editor.
		}
	}
} );
```

Voilà! You should see CKEditor 4 running in your Vue.js application.

<info-box>
	See the list of supported [directives](#component-directives) and [events](#component-events) that will help you configure the component.
</info-box>

### Using ES6 modules

The editor component comes as a [UMD module](https://github.com/umdjs/umd), which makes it possible to use in various environments, for instance, applications generated by [Vue CLI 3](https://cli.vuejs.org/), built using [webpack](https://webpack.js.org), etc.

To create an editor instance, you must first import the editor build and the component modules into the root file of your application (e.g. `main.js` when generated by Vue CLI). Then, enable the component using the [`Vue.use()`](https://vuejs.org/v2/api/#Vue-use) method:

```js
import Vue from 'vue';
import CKEditor from 'ckeditor4-vue';

Vue.use( CKEditor );
```

<info-box>
	Instead of calling `Vue.use()`, you can always [use the component locally](#using-the-component-locally).
</info-box>

The following example showcases a single–file component of the application. Use the `<ckeditor>` component in your template:

* The [`v-model`](#v-model) directive enables an out–of–the–box two–way data binding.
* The [`config`](#config) directive helps you pass the editor configuration to the editor instance.

```html
<template>
	<div id="app">
		<ckeditor v-model="editorData" :config="editorConfig"></ckeditor>
	</div>
</template>

<script>
	export default {
		name: 'app',
		data() {
			return {
				editorData: '<p>Content of the editor.</p>',
				editorConfig: {
					// The configuration of the editor.
				}
			};
		}
	}
</script>
```

<info-box>
	See the list of supported [directives](#component-directives) and [events](#component-events) that will help you configure the component.
</info-box>

### Using the component locally

If you do not want the CKEditor 4 component to be enabled globally, you can skip the `Vue.use( CKEditor )` part entirely. Instead, configure it in the `components` property of your view.

```html
<template>
	<div id="app">
		<ckeditor v-model="editorData" :config="editorConfig"></ckeditor>
	</div>
</template>

<script>
	export default {
		name: 'app',
		components: {
			// Use the <ckeditor> component in this view.
			ckeditor: CKEditor.component
		},
		data() {
			return {
				editorData: '<p>Content of the editor.</p>',
				editorConfig: {
					// The configuration of the editor.
				}
			};
		}
	}
</script>
```

## Component Directives

### `editor-url`

By default, the CKEditor 4 Vue component loads the [standard-all preset](https://ckeditor.com/cke4/presets-all) of the latest CKEditor 4 release from the [CDN](https://cdn.ckeditor.com/) when creating the first editor. This behavior can be altered by changing the value of the `editor-url` directive to point to the desired CKEditor 4 script location:

```html
<template>
	<div id="app">
		<ckeditor :editor-url="editorUrl"></ckeditor>
	</div>
</template>

<script>
	export default {
		name: 'app',
		data() {
			return {
				editorUrl: "https://your-website.example/ckeditor/ckeditor.js"
			};
		}
	}
</script>
```

Alternatively, you can load CKEditor before loading the CKEditor 4 Vue component. In this case the component will use the already loaded CKEditor:

```html
<script src="custom-ckeditor.js"></script>
<script src="../node_modules/ckeditor4/ckeditor.js"></script>
<script src="../node_modules/ckeditor4-vue/dist/ckeditor.js"></script>
```

### `type`

By default, the CKEditor 4 Vue component creates a {@link guide/dev/framed/README classic editor}. To create an {@link guide/dev/inline/README inline editor}, add the `type` directive with the value of `inline` to the component tag:

```html
<ckeditor type="inline"></ckeditor>
```

Every other value of the `type` directive will be treated as `classic`.

### `config`

Custom configuration can be passed to the editor with the `config` directive of the CKEditor 4 Vue component. The following example shows {@link features/toolbar/README how to change the contents of the toolbar}:

```html
<template>
	<div id="app">
		<ckeditor :config="editorConfig"></ckeditor>
	</div>
</template>

<script>
	export default {
		name: 'app',
		data() {
			return {
				editorConfig: {
					toolbar: [ [ 'Bold' ] ]
				}
			};
		}
	}
</script>
```

{@linkapi CKEDITOR.config All configuration options} can be changed this way.

### `tag-name`

By default, the editor component creates a `<div>` container which is used as an element passed to the editor. The element can be configured, so for example to create a `<textarea>`, use the following directive:

```html
<ckeditor tag-name="textarea"></ckeditor>
```

### `value`

Allows a one–way data binding that sets the content of the editor. Unlike [`v-model`](#v-model), the value will not be updated when the content of the editor changes.

```html
<ckeditor value="<p>Content of the editor</p>"></ckeditor>
```

To execute an action when the editor data changes, use the [`input`](#input) event.

### `v-model`

A [standard directive](https://vuejs.org/v2/api/#v-model) for form inputs in Vue. Unlike [`value`](#value), it creates a two–way data binding, which:

* sets the initial editor content,
* automatically updates the state of the application as the editor content changes (e.g. as the user types),
* can be used to set the editor content when necessary.

```html
<template>
	<div id="app">
		<ckeditor v-model="editorData"></ckeditor>
		<button v-on:click="emptyEditor()">Empty the editor</button>

		<h2>Editor data</h2>
		<code>{{ editorData }}</code>
	</div>
</template>

<script>
	export default {
		name: 'app',
		data() {
			return {
				editorData: '<p>Content of the editor.</p>'
			};
		},
		methods: {
			emptyEditor() {
				this.editorData = '';
			}
		}
	}
</script>
```

In the above example, the `editorData` property will be updated automatically as the user types and changes the content. It can also be used to change (as in `emptyEditor()`) or set the initial content of the editor.

If you only want to execute an action when the editor data changes, use the [`input`](#input) event.

### `read-only`

This directive controls the {@linkapi CKEDITOR.editor#readOnly `readOnly`} property of the editor. It sets the initial read–only state of the editor and changes it during its lifecycle.

```html
<ckeditor read-only="true"></ckeditor>
```

Note that you can still pass `readOnly` property as a [`config`](#config) directive, however, the [`read-only`](#read-only) directive will take precedence over the configuration property if set.

## Component events

### `namespaceloaded`

Fired once {@linkapi CKEDITOR} namespace is loaded on the page. This event is called only one time for each editor instance and only when CKEDITOR 4 URL provided in [`editor-url`](#editor-url) directive is valid. Allows to modify global editor namespace.

```html
<template>
	<div id="app">
		<ckeditor @namespaceloaded="onNamespaceLoaded" :config="editorConfig"></ckeditor>
	</div>
</template>

<script>
	export default {
		name: 'app',
		data() {
			return {
				editorConfig: {
					extraPlugins: 'placeholder'
				}
			}
		},
		methods: {
			onNamespaceLoaded( CKEDITOR ) {
				// Add external `placeholder` plugin which will be available for each
				// editor instance on the page.
				CKEDITOR.plugins.addExternal( 'placeholder', '/path/to/the/placeholder/plugin', 'plugin.js' );
			}
		}
	}
</script>
```

### `ready`

Corresponds to the {@linkapi CKEDITOR.editor#event-instanceReady `instanceReady`} editor event.

```html
<ckeditor @ready="onEditorReady"></ckeditor>
```

### `focus`

Corresponds to the {@linkapi CKEDITOR.editor#event-focus `focus`} editor event.

```html
<ckeditor @focus="onEditorFocus"></ckeditor>
```

### `blur`

Corresponds to the {@linkapi CKEDITOR.editor#event-blur `blur`} editor event.

```html
<ckeditor @blur="onEditorBlur"></ckeditor>
```

### `input`

Corresponds to the {@linkapi CKEDITOR.editor#event-change `change`} editor event. Called only once the editor's data changed. Note that the `change` event requires the [`Undo`](https://ckeditor.com/cke4/addon/undo) plugin to work. Otherwise it will be called only one time on the editor initialization. See also the [`v-model` directive](#v-model) to learn more.

```html
<ckeditor @input="onEditorInput"></ckeditor>
```

## Editor Instance

In most cases there is no need to break the encapsulation provided by the CKEditor 4 Vue component as the editor configuration and event handlers can be configured with the component's directives. However, if you need access to the {@linkapi CKEDITOR.editor} object, you can use the `editor` property of the component's instance:

```js
component.instance.getData();
```

Please note that this property is initialised asynchronously, after mounting the component.

## CKEditor 4 Vue Integration Demo

See the {@linkexample vue working "CKEditor 4 Vue Integration" sample} that showcases the most important features of the integration, including choosing the editor type, configuration and events, or setting up two-way data binding.
